NAME
    RT-Extension-ChangeManagement - Default Change Management configuration
    for RT

RT VERSION
    Works with RT 5.

INSTALLATION
    "perl Makefile.PL"
    "make"
    "make install"
        May need root permissions

    Edit your /opt/rt5/etc/RT_SiteConfig.pm
        Add this line:

            Plugin('RT::Extension::ChangeManagement');

    "make initdb"
        Only run this the first time you install this module. If you run
        this twice, you may end up with duplicate data in your database.

    Clear your mason cache
            rm -rf /opt/rt5/var/mason_data/obj

    Restart your webserver

DESCRIPTION
    Implements a minimalistic change management process within RT.

    It is often the case that businesses that have achieved some level of
    ISO or SOC compliance must have a standardized process by which to
    handle changes to software, hardware, infrastructure, etc. This
    extension implements a minimal change management system within RT. It
    provides a framework for handling a variety of change types, and leaves
    a lot of room for growth and flexibility with regards to your
    organization's practices and procedures. Out of the box, it resembles a
    scaled down version of an ITIL-like change management process.

    When combined with RT::Extension::MandatoryOnTransition, this extension
    can transform into a fully-featured change management system.

  Change Management Queue
    After installing, you'll see a new queue called Change Management for
    tracking all of the incoming change requests. You can change the name to
    anything you like after installing. In a typical configuration, you will
    also want to assign an RT email address, like changes@example.com or
    crb@example.com (Change Review Team) to create tickets in this queue.

  Custom Roles
    Users can be assigned several roles that are part of the change
    management process:

    Change Reviewer
        Person who reviews incoming change requests, and is responsible for
        approving or denying a change request. Can be assigned to a group.

    Change Implementor
        Person who is responsible for implementing a change request. This
        role can be assigned to a group.

  Groups
    The Change Management extension introduces one new group to RT: Change
    Review Team. Any members of this group are capable of approving or
    rejecting proposed changes in the Change Management queue.

  Ticket Statuses
    Tickets in the change management queue can have any one of the following
    statuses:

    Requested
        Status given to a new item. Indicates than a change has been
        requested and is awaiting approval.

    Approved
        Tickets with a status of Requested can be moved to Approved if the
        change has been accepted by the change review team.

    In Progress
        An approved change that is in the process of being deployed.

    Partially Deployed
        The change has been partially deployed; it is either taking an
        unusually long time to complete, or part of the deployment succeeded
        while another part failed. Reasons as to why should be detailed in a
        comment.

    Deployed
        The change has been deployed successfully.

    Failed
        The change failed to deploy. Reasons should be detailed in a
        comment.

    Cancelled
        This change was cancelled. Reasoning should be provided in a
        comment.

    Rejected
        The change was rejected by the review team. Reasoning should be
        provided in a comment on the ticket.

  Custom Fields
   Change Category
    Specifies the kind of change that is to be performed. Possible values
    include:

    Configuration Change
    OS Patching
    Firmware Update
    Software Update
    New Software Install
    Hardware Repair
    New Hardware Install
    Project Implementation

   Change Type
    One of the three types of change types outlined in ITIL:

    Standard
        A low risk, pre-authorized change that follows a repeatable process.
        This is the default for new tickets in the Change Management queue.

    Emergency
        A change that must be performed ASAP, potentially bypassing approval
        steps.

    Normal
        Any change that doesn't fall into the other types.

   Rollback Plan
    A description of the steps necessary to perform a rollback of the
    proposed changes in the event that the deployment process is
    unsuccessful.

   Change Started
    Date that the change was started. This is not the same as the normal
    Started date on the ticket - Started is set when the ticket is moved to
    an open status (such as approved); Change Started is when someone
    actually started implementation of the change. This is set automatically
    when a change ticket's status changes to in progress or partially
    deployed.

   Change Complete
    Date that the change was successfully deployed. This is set
    automatically when a change ticket's status changes to deployed.

  Actions
   Submit Request
    Changes the status of a ticket to requested.

   Approve Request
    Mark a change management request ticket as approved. Requires the Change
    Reviewer role.

   Deny Request
    Deny the change management request. Requires the Change Reviewer role.

   Start Deployment
    Changes the ticket status to in progress. Requires the Change
    Implementor role.

   Deployment Complete
    Marks the change request as deployed. Requires the Change Implementor
    role.

   Partially Deployed
    Marks the change request as partially deployed. Requires the Change
    Implementor role.

   Deployment Failed
    Changes the status of the request to failed. Requires the Change
    Implementor role.

   Deployment Cancelled
    Cancels the change request (changes status to failed). Requires the
    Change Implementor role.

CUSTOMIZING AND EXTENDING
    There are some ways RT::Extension::ChangeManagement can be customized to
    provide an even more robust change management system.

  Additional Custom Fields
    Some ideas of fields that could be added to the change management
    process might include:

    Change Origin
        Customer, Vendor, Internal. Dropdown.

    Location
        Datacenter, customer site, etc. Text.

    Implementation Steps
        Steps needed to implement proposed change. Text.

    Validation Steps
        Process for validating a change was deployed successfully. Text.

    Impact Assessment
        A description of what potential side effects of a proposed change
        might be, what could happen if the change goes awry, etc. Text.

   Making Custom Fields Required
    Using RT::Extension::MandatoryOnTransition, any of the above fields can
    be made required upon a status change. For example, you may wish to make
    Implementation Steps, Validation Steps, and Impact Assessment required
    fields before a change request can be approved. See
    etc/ChangeManagement_Config.pm for a ready-to-use example with the out
    of the box configuration.

   Default Values for Custom Fields
    If you look at etc/initialdata in the plugin directory, you will find a
    section called @Final (unsurprisingly, it is the last section of
    configuration). There you will find some sample code and documentation
    for setting a default value for a custom field.

    The process basically boils down to:

    Load a named queue
    Load a custom field by name
    Set the default value for that custom field in that queue

  Approvals Queue
    If you have an established Change Review Board, your organization is
    likely dealing with a high volume of change requests. Separating
    requests into a second queue can make it quicker and easier to process,
    as new requests are not interspersed with other changes in various
    stages of completion.

    To separate change requests into a separate approvals queue, see the
    docs in the "Approvals" in Customizing guide.

AUTHOR
    Best Practical Solutions, LLC <modules@bestpractical.com>

    All bugs should be reported via email to
        bug-RT-Extension-ChangeManagement@rt.cpan.org
    or via the web at
        http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=RT-Extension-ChangeManagement
LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT
    This software is Copyright (c) 2022 by Best Practical Solutions, LLC.

    This is free software, licensed under:

      The GNU General Public License, Version 2, June 1991

